## Here are the steps to create a simple “Hello, World!” application in Java with Gradle, and then build a Docker image for it using a Gradle task.

Install Java and Gradle: Make sure you have Java and Gradle installed on your machine. You can download Java from the official Oracle website and Gradle from the official Gradle website.

Create a new directory for your project: Open a terminal and navigate to the location where you want to create your new project. Then run the following command to create a new directory and navigate into it:
```bash
mkdir HelloWorld && cd HelloWorld
```
Initialize a new Gradle project: Run the following command to initialize a new Gradle project:
```bash
gradle init --type java-application
```
When prompted, enter HelloWorld as the project name and com.example as the package.

Update the Java application: Open the src/main/java/com/example/HelloWorld.java file in a text editor and replace its content with the following code:
```bash
package com.example;

public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello, World!");
    }
}
```
Create a Dockerfile: In the root directory of your project, create a new file named Dockerfile with the following content:
```bash
FROM openjdk:8-jdk-alpine
COPY build/libs/*.jar app.jar
ENTRYPOINT ["java","-jar","/app.jar"]
```
This Dockerfile uses the openjdk:21-jdk-alpine image as the base image, copies the JAR file generated by Gradle into the image, and sets the entrypoint to run the JAR file.

Create a Gradle task to build the Docker image: Open the build.gradle file in a text editor and add the following task at the end of the file:
```bash
task buildDockerImage(type: Exec) {
    dependsOn assemble
    commandLine 'sh', '-c', "docker buildx build -t ${project.findProperty('imageName') ?: 'helloworld:latest'} ."
}
```
This task depends on the assemble task, which means the assemble task will be executed before the buildDockerImage task. The Docker image will be built from the Dockerfile located in the root directory of your project, and the image will be tagged as helloworld:latest.

Build the Docker image: You can now build the Docker image by running the following command in the terminal:
```bash
./gradlew buildDockerImage -PimageName=yourImageName
```
And that’s it! You have created a simple “Hello, World!” application in Java, built it with Gradle, and created a Docker image for it using a Gradle task. Please replace 'helloworld:latest' with your preferred Docker image tag, and make sure you have Docker installed on your machine. This is just a basic example. Depending on your application’s needs, you might need to customize it further. For more information, you can refer to the official documentation of Java, Gradle, and Docker.